The ECG (electrocardiogram, EKG- Elektrokardiogramm,) is defined as a non-invasive, low-cost technique to monitor the heart based on the detection of its electrical activity.  The action potential (electrical activity) of the heart can be transmitted to the body surface through body fluids, which are good conductors. The sum of the action potential can be recorded by placing electrodes in specific locations of the body with the help of a machine called an electrocardiogram and the process is called electrocardiography.  In 1902, the Dutch physician Einthoven invented ECG, for investigating heart diseases and was named the "father of electrocardiography”. ECG has been recognized as a robust screening and diagnostic tool, and today it is used globally in almost every healthcare setting to assess the severity of cardiovascular diseases. The ECG test are usually employed to diagnose conditions such as irregular heartbeat (arrhythmias), chest pain, post-treatment for a heart attack (myocardial infarction), endocarditis (inflammation or infection of one or more of the heart valves), heart surgery, or cardiac catheterization, and to check the functioning of an implanted pacemaker. Each deflection in the electrogram represents a particular activity in the cardiac cycle and is quite sensitive to minor changes to the structure or function of the heart, which can therefore be considered gold standard diagnostic tool.

&nbsp;

### Cardiac conduction system
The cardiac conduction system included specialized network of cardiac muscle cells and fibers that are responsible for initiating and propagating electrical impulses to coordinate the rhythmic contraction of the heart chambers. The normal electrical activity in the heart occurs in the right atrium where specialized pacemaker cells form the sinoatrial node (SA). The electrical discharges produced by these cells creates depolarization which spreads to the atrial muscle from right to the left and then travels to then travels to Bachmann's Bundle. The Bachmann's bundle is an interatrial conduction pathway responsible for conducting depolarization from the SA node to the left atrium of the heart. The electrical activity reaches the ventricles through atrioventricular node (AVN) which are aslo specialized pacemaker cells. From there, the electrical impulse spreads to His bundle that divides into right and left branches, and the left branch further divides into posterior and anterior fascicles and reaches the Purkinje fibers (Figure 1) and leads to apid ventricular depolarization and ventricular contraction and blood ejection which can be measured using ECG.
